Data Protection Impact Assessment

NHS COVID-19 App PILOT LIVE
RELEASE Isle of Wight





1
Data Protection Impact Assessment (“DPIA”)
COVID-19 App PILOT LIVE RELEASE Isle of Wight Version 1.0


Approved By



Post                        Data Protection Officer
                            Department of Health an Social Care


Name                        John Ryder

Signature                   Email 06/05/2020 15:34


Date                        06/05/2020








Version History

Version      Description          Approved       Authors

V 1.0        Initial approved     06/05/2020     Collaboration between

             version                             NHSX App Cell;
                                                 NHS England and NHS
                                                 Improvement Corporate Information

                                                 Governance;
                                                 Government Legal Department.



















  2
INTRODUCTION

The COVID-19 App (“App”) is a mobile phone application developed by NHSX that is
designed to provide support for: COVID-19 self-diagnosis; alerting users who have come in
contact with other users reporting symptoms; public health planning; and research, in the

context of the COVID-19 public health emergency.

This DPIA applies to a live release of the App limited to the population of the Isle of Wight,
prior to the planned national release.

The controller and partner organisations

For the purposes of this version of the App, the Department of Health and Social Care (for
the Secretary of State) will act as controller for the processing of personal data that supports
the functioning of the App. The legal entities that comprise NHS England and NHS

Improvement will provide resources to support the processing. These are the NHS
Commissioning Board (operating as NHS England), the Trust Development Authority and
Monitor (together operating as NHS Improvement).


Rationale for this DPIA
The App is designed to preserve the anonymity of those who use it. It does not collect any
directly identifiable information (for example, it does not collect name, telephone number,
NHS number or GPS location data).


For the App to function a number of unique identifiers are necessary. These distinguish
between individuals but do not reveal their identities. They are not connected to other
identifiers outside of the App. They enable the components of the App – the App installed on

the phone and a central database – to perform the their functions. These are: to recognise a
device; record information about proximity encounters between devices; and to send and
receive notifications.

The recording of information about a proximity encounter between two users of the App is

enabled through Bluetooth technology. This does not record the user’s location, but does
enable instances of the App installed on peoples’ phones to keep a log of proximity
encounters with other users, albeit in a way that does not collect any information about a

persons location. At no point is a user’s identity capable of being captured or disclosed by
the instance of the App installed on a phone, or the central database.

One function of the App is to issue a one-time use Reference Code which is used to facilitate

the ordering of a diagnostic test by the user. The use of this code requires that is is
associated with information that does reveal the subject’s identity such as name and
telephone number – but only outside the App. This is only done by organisations that
manage and conduct the testing process. These organisations do not have access to the

App or its data. In a future release, this code may be used to facilitate the reporting of test
outcomes back to the App. This will not involve the disclosure of information that reveals
users’ identities back to the App, and this process will continue to preserve users’ anonymity


Although the data that is processed by the App does not reveal the identities of the users,
we consider that the set of unique identifiers that are necessary for its functioning relate to
identifiable natural persons for whom there are direct and specific consequences arising

from their use of the App. For this reason, we are treating the data as pseudonymised data –
albeit it has never been capable of revealing an individual’s identity. On this basis, although


3
an individual will not be identifiable from the data, the data will qualfy as personal data, and

the GDPR applies.

Because the operation of the App involves the processing of personal data, as that term is
defined by the GDPR, we have completed this DPIA. It describes the envisaged data

processing operations; assesses whether those processing operations are necessary and
proportionate in relation to the purposes for which the App is being deployed; and it identifies
risks and appropriate mitigation of risks to users and other data subjects from those

processing operations.

We recognise that public trust and confidence in the App is paramount to its success. We
also recognise that transparency around the functioning of the App and its privacy controls is
key to engendering that trust and confidence.


Confidential patient information
We are working on the basis that information about health symptons that users report using
the App may qualify as confidential patient information, in particular for the purposes of the

Health Services (Control of Patient Information) Regulations 2002 (the COPI regs.). These
regulations provide for the processing of confidential patient information in specified
circumstances and establish that such processing is lawful despite any obligation of
confidence owed – i.e. setting aside the common law duty of confidence. Regulation 3

provides for the processing of confidential patient information for purposes relating to
communicable disease and other risks to public health.

We are doing so even though, as explained above, the data collected by the device will not

inckude or be linked with information that reveals users’ identities. Whilst the App involves
the processing of health information (for example, where a user notifies the NHS, through
the App, that they have symptoms of COVID-19 following completion of a self-diagnosis

checklist), that health information cannot be associated with any existing patient data held by
the NHS.

The processing of pseudonymised personal data in controlled environments by NHS
organisations is not considered to breach confidentiality. However, it is recognised that the

processing by the App involves:

    •   transmission of data in a distributed environment with direct involvement of the data
        subjects;

    •   communication between data subjects without their direct control (i.e. where unique
        identifiers, in encrypted form, are shared between two devices during a proximity
        encounter);

    •   submission of data to a central database again without the direct control of the
        subjects (proximity users); and
    •   consequent direct effect on users (i.e. notifications to users that they have been in

        proximity with infected users and may be at risk of infection).

We also recognise that the App must comply with human rights legislation in particular:

Article 8 - Right to respect for private and family life





4
1.   Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his

    correspondence.
2. There shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise of this right except
    such as is in accordance with the law and is necessary in a democratic society in the

    interests of national security, public safety or the economic well-being of the country, for
    the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the
    protection of the rights and freedoms of others.


The Department of Health and Social Care, has determined that any interference with the
private life of users caused by the operation of the App is (i) in accordance with the law (in
that the public authority (DHSC) has a legal basis to carry out the relevant personal data
processing, and has the vires necessary to operate a public health App); and (ii) is a

necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society, in pursuit of the legitimate
aim of ensuring public safety. Our demonstrable compliance with data protection legislation
and the common law duty of confidence underpin this.



Key Privacy by Design and Default Principles used by the App
The App was designed and will continue to evolve with the following principles embedded.


        •   It will collect the minimal amount of data necessary;
        •   Data does not leave the device without the permission of the user;
        •   All users' identities will be obscured to protect their identity;

        •   There will be no third-party trackers in the app;
        •   Proximity data is deleted from the App on users’ phones when no longer required
        •   The user can delete the App and its data from their phone at any time. Although

            this will not result in the automatic deletion of data from other users’ phones, such
            data will be deleted on the expiry of the local App retention period – currently 28
            days.

        •   In accordance with the law, personal data will not be kept for longer than is
            necessary in the central database. The exact retention period for data that may
            be processed relating to COVID-19 for public health reasons has yet to be set

            (owing to the uncertain nature of COVID-19 and the impact that it may have on
            the public). In light of this, we will ensure that the necessity to retain the data will
            be routinely reviewed by an independent authority (at least every 6 months).

        •   Data in the central database (the Sonar Backend) will not be available to those
            developing in the App apart from in exceptional circumstances.
        •   Provision of any data from the central database will be subject to data protection

            impact assessment and establishment of legal basis for the disclosure.


Public Health Purposes and Value of the App

The App is intended to influence the behaviours of a proportion of the public sufficient to
alter the trajectory of the COVID-19 outbreak. By providing alerts and monitoring App users’
proximity to those who present a risk of infection or may be at risk of infection this is

intended to alter the behaviour of a proportion of those groups. The App will also provide
information, processed at an aggregated level, for the strategic management of the COVID
response.



5
   Beta Testing

   BETA Testing is vital to ensuring the technical viability of possible solutions. For the App, a
   CLOSED BETA test took place on 08/04/2020 – 09/04/2020 and 16/04/2020 involving
   volunteers from RAF Leeming, following completion of a DPIA.




                                           -------------------



   Purposes


Fully describe what is     Purposes
the purpose of the         The COVID-19 App is a mobile phone application developed by
project and how is the     NHSX that is designed to provide support for: COVID-19 self-
processing of
information necessary      diagnosis; alerting users who have come in contact with other users
to that work?              reporting symptoms; public health planning; and research, in the
                           context of the COVID-19 public health emergency.

                           The App is designed to preserve the anonymity of its users. It does

                           this by using several codes that are unique to instances of the App
                           installed on users’ phones, but do not reveal a user’s identity. These
                           codes are essential to facilitate communication between devices,

                           with the central database, and for messaging. They are not linked to
                           any information that identifies the user, and the user cannot
                           access them. These are:


                               •  The Sonar ID: a code that is given by the central database
                                  when the user registers. This is used to uniquely reference
                                  the data on the user’s phone, and the data submitted to the
                                  central database that provides the alerting service.
                               •  The Transmitted ID: an encrypted version of the same code

                                  that is collected over Bluetooth by other App users’ phones
                                  when they are close to a user’s phone, and similarly
                                  collected by the user’s phone as a log of your proximity with
                                  other App users
                               •  The messaging ID: A messaging code used to alert you
                                  when you have been close to another App user that has
                                  reported having Covid symptoms to the App.




                           Installation of the App is voluntary.


                           The following purposes are supported by the App:

                           (i)    Logging of proximity encounters and alerting:

                                  a. recording proximity encounters between users of the App
                                      on their respective devices, using Bluetooth technology;
                                  b. user self diagnosis using a tool included in the App;



   6
                                c. submission by a user to a central database (the Sonar

                                   Backend) of the fact that they have symptoms, together
                                   with their proximity information – encounters with users in
                                   the last 28 days.

                                d. analysing that user’s proximity encounters and matching
                                   their contacts with the unique identifiers of other users;
                                e. notifying those other users (where they have had a

                                   contact of sufficient proximity / duration) that they are at
                                   risk of having contracted COVID-19.


                        (ii)    Data analysis for public health planning and pandemic
                                response, such as resource planning and epidemiological
                                modelling.

                        (iii)   Using de-identified or anonymised data for scientific research
                                and statistical analysis.



                        Why is the processing of personal data necessary?
                        The processing of data including identifiers that are unique to

                        individuals (which therefore meets the definition of personal data) is
                        necessary in order to uniquely recognise the instance of an App
                        installed on a device. This is to enable communications between
                        devices so that proximity encounters can be logged and so that the

                        user can be notified when they have been in proximity with another
                        user that has reported that they have COVID-19 symptoms.


                        How does the processing of personal data work in relation to
                        the identified purpose?
                        In relation to the purposes identified above, the processing works in

                        the following way:

                        Assignment of Sonar ID

                        Each instance of the App, and therefore user, is assigned a unique
                        ID (the “Sonar ID”). A central database (the Sonar Backend)
                        provides alerts to users when it receives information that a user who

                        they have been in proximity with has or may have, contracted
                        COVID-19.

                        Proximity encounters

                        The App uses Bluetooth technology to recognise and connect with
                        other devices using the App. During a proximity encounter, the
                        devices exchange their Transmitted IDs (i.e. the Sonar ID in

                        encrypted form), together with a timestamp for the encounter, and
                        radio signal information. The latter is used by the Sonar Backend
                        when proximity information has been submitted, to derive the

                        distance between the devices during the encounter.




7
                       Data about proximity encounters is stored locally on the user’s

                       device, for 28 days. User’s cannot access this information. When a
                       user self-diagnoses with, or reports the result of a positive test for
                       COVID-19, or they have been alerted by the App that they have

                       been in contact with someone with COVID-19, they are asked to
                       upload their proximity encounter data for contact matching.


                       Contact matching
                       When a user submits the fact that they have COVID-19 symptoms
                       with their proximity information, the following information is uploaded

                       about each proximity encounter
                           •   Transmitted ID – the encrypted Sonar ID of other App
                           •   Timestamp for encounter

                           •   Radio Signal Strength Indicator - the strength of the
                               Bluetooth signal received by a device


                       Uploaded proximity encounter data is automatically analysed in the
                       Sonar Backend. The make and model of the device (e.g. Apple
                       iPhone 10) is used help interpret the data – as bluetooth signal

                       strength varies between devices. The Transmitted IDs of the App
                       instances of users that have been logged by the submitting user’s
                       device are decrypted, to reveal their Sonar ID.


                       Where an encounter is determined to be of sufficient risk on the
                       basis of duration and relative proximity, the Messaging ID for the

                       proximate user is obtained by matching to the unencrypted Sonar
                       ID. Using this the messaging system notifies that user that they have
                       been in proximity with someone who has reported that they have
                       COVID-19 symptoms.


                       Self-diagnosis
                       The App includes a self-diagnosis tool which enables the user to

                       assess whether they may have COVID-19 on the basis of their
                       symptoms. If they do, they are asked to upload the symptom
                       information from their device to the Sonar Backend, with the

                       following commentary:

                       This information will be used anonymously to encourage anyone

                       who has recently come into contact with you, and has this app
                       installed on their phone, to self-isolate. Together we can help save
                       lives, protect the NHS and stop the spread of coronavirus in the UK.


                       At this point their proximity encounter data will also be requested,
                       and the contact matching process described above will be carried
                       out.


                       The app includes status pages indicating:



8
                           •   Amber – You have been near someone who has coronavirus
                               symptoms (from alert)
                           •   Red – Your symptoms indicate you may have coronavirus
                               (self-diagnosis)


                       Users are given advice on what to do when these statuses arise.


                       As part of the self-diagnosis journey, the App includes a facility for a
                       user to request a unique one-time use Reference Number from the
                       Sonar Backend. When requested this is then presented to the user

                       via the App. This is a unique identifier that can be used to request a
                       test for COVID-19, as follows:

                       1. An app user self-diagnoses: they are provided with a phone

                       number to call and a reference number.
                       2. The user calls the call centre, using an automated message they
                       are asked to confirm they are residents of the Isle of Wight and that

                       they will be asked for an IoW address
                       3. If the user passes through the automated system, they will be
                       asked for personal details required for the testing and the app

                       reference code. People calling from outside of the IoW won’t be able
                       to proceed (the call centre person on the phone will check this)


                       Stages 2 and 3 are outside the scope of this DPIA, as any data
                       generated at these points will not be stored on the App or the App
                       database. For the purposes of the Isle of Wight release, the

                       reference number will not be used to link test results back to the
                       App.


                       Research and public health management
                       Users are asked to provide their Postal Area – that is, the first
                       portion (up to the space) of the users’ home address postcode (e.g.
                       SW1A) when they intially install the App. The App will not collect

                       data about which postal district a user might be in from time to time
                       as they move around.


                       The Postal Area data will be used for public health planning
                       purposes, in conjunction with reported diagnoses and proximity
                       information (for example, to help local NHS organisations to

                       understand the spread of the disease in their area), and may also be
                       used for research purposes


                       Performance data
                       During the limited release in the Isle of Wight, additional data will be
                       collected about the App’s performance and user interactions with the

                       App. This data will be captured through the Microsoft AppCentre and
                       will not include the SonarID or any other identifying information, and



9
                           will not be linked with any identifying information. This data is
                           collected to help us understand whether the App and the related
                           infrastructure is functioning as intended. This is necessarily held on

                           Microsoft servers away from our platform, as some of the metrics
                           are for the inability to contact our service.



   Nature of the data

Will the processing        Data may be fully anonymised for public health planning, research
involve anonymised         or statistical purposes, if those purposes can be achieved without
           1
information ?              the use of personal data. Otherwise, data may be linked to Sonar ID
                           with such additional protection that is required as an output of data
                           protection impact assessment.



Will the processing        Yes. Through Sonar ID and other related identifiers, the data allows
involve pseudonymised      the individuation of users. However, it is processed in a form that in
personal data?             cannot be attributed to (i.e. reveal the identity of) a specific data
                           subject without the use of additional information, so we are treating
                           the data as pseudonymised.


                           The data with pseudonymous identifiers may be shared with NHS
                           England and NHS Improvement who will process with powers under
                           the notice issued by the Secretary of Stae under s. 3(4) of the
                           Health Service (Control of Patient Information) Regulations 2002.



Will the processing        No. For the reasons given above, the data will not be processed in a
involve fully identifiable way that will allow users to be directly identified.
personal data?




   Assets

Does the proposal involve creating a     Yes
new information asset?                   The Sonar Backend supporting the App, which will be

                                         hosted on Amazon Web Service servers (with fall back
                                         from Microsoft Azure)

Does the proposal involve processing No
data held on an existing information
asset or assets?


Is/are the asset owner(s) aware of       N/A
the proposal




   1
     anonymous information is information which does not relate to an identified or identifiable natural person or
   to personal data rendered anonymous in such a manner that the data subject is not or no longer identifiable


   10
   What is the timeframe for the project/programme/initiative?
   (Please include commencement dates and any foreseen end dates)


The project that this DPIA covers is the live release of the App on the Isle of Wight
commnecing 4 May 2020.






   Controllers  2

For the release in the   NHS England                      No – provides agency support

Isle of Wight
                         TDA                              No – provides agency support

                         Monitor                          No – provides agency support

                         DHSC (for the Secretary of       Yes

                         State)

Data Protection Officers DHSC
and SIROs                DPO: John Ryder
                         SIRO: David Williams


Information Asset        Matthew Gould, CEO, NHS X supported by Geraint Lewis, SRO
Owner




   Screening questions

Does the proposal involve any of the        ●  Aggregate data
following – drop down list to include:      Where possible, data will be aggregated for
    ●  National Commissioning Data
       Repository (NCDR) data               public health planning purposes.

    ●  Data pseudonymised by NHS            ●  Anonymised data
       Digital
                                           The data collected by the App is pseudonymised
    ●  Aggregate data                      – albeit having never been directly identifiable
    ●  Anonymised data                     there is no lookup to users’ identities. This data

                                           may be used for analytical purposes to support
                                           planning and research, with the results presented
                                           as aggregate numbers. Such processing will be

                                           subject to the safeguards applicable to research
                                           processing under (i) Article 89(1) GDPR; and (ii)



   2'controller' means an entity that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the
   processing of personal data


   11
                                              section 19 of the Data Protection Act 2018.



Has processing of this nature already      Yes – CLOSED BETA DPIA
been captured and considered within a
previous DPIA? If so, link to reference
number
Will the processing involve a large        Yes

amount of personal data (including
pseudonymised personal data) and
affect a large number of data subjects?
Will the project involve the use of a new  Yes. Whilst the Bluetooth technology underpinning
technology(ies) which might be             the proximity recording is not new technology, the
perceived as being privacy intrusive?      use of the technology for this purpose in the context

i.e. using biometrics, facial recognition, of a large-scale pandemic response is novel.
Artificial Intelligence or tracking (such
as tracking an individual’s geolocation
or behaviour)?
Will the processing introduce or make      Yes
use of a new platform not currently in
use?

In the absence of proper controls is       Yes. A security compromise could lead to a loss of
there the risk that the processing may     confidentiality of health data, albeit health data that
give rise to discrimination, identity theftwould only be attributable to Sonar IDs, and not to
or fraud, financial loss, damage to the    users’ identities.
reputation, loss of confidentiality of
personal data protected by professional
secrecy (e.g. health records),

unauthorised reversal of
pseudonymisation, or any other
significant economic or social
disadvantage?
Does the proposal introduce difficulties   No. The App will be accompanied by a privacy
in ensuring that individuals are informed  notice, and with a process enabling users to exercise

or able to exercise their information      data subject rights.
rights?
Is there the risk that data subjects might No
be deprived of their rights and freedoms
or prevented from exercising control
over their personal data?
Will the processing of personal data       No

occur without informing the individual of
the processing?
Will there be processing of genetic        Yes – health.
data, data concerning health, sex life,
racial or ethnic origin, biometric data,
political opinions, religion or
philosophical beliefs, or trade union

membership?
Will there be processing of data           No
concerning criminal convictions and
offences or related security measures?
Will the project involve the targeting of  No
children or other vulnerable individuals



   12
for marketing purposes, profiling or

other automated decision making?
Will personal aspects be evaluated, in     Yes – the App calculates a risk-score for an
particular analysing or predicting         individual based on their recent contact with people
aspects concerning performance at          who report that they have coronavirus symptoms.
work, economic situation, health,
personal preferences or interests,

reliability or behaviour, location or
movements, in order to create or use
personal profiles?
Will the project include a systematic      No
and extensive evaluation of personal
aspects relating to natural persons
which is based on automated

processing, including profiling, and on
which decisions are based that produce
legal effects concerning the natural
person or similarly significantly affect
the natural person (e.g. a recruitment
aptitude test which uses pre-
programmed algorithms and criteria)?

Will the processing result in you making   Yes – the App sends notification alerts to users as a
decisions or taking actions against        consequence of the calculated risk-score based on
individuals in ways which can have a       their recent contact with people who report that they
significant impact on them? e.g.           have coronavirus symptoms.
decisions about an individual’s access
to a product, service, opportunity or
benefit, or recruitment aptitude test

based on automated decision making
(including profiling)?
Will there be a systematic monitoring of   No
a publicly accessible area on a large
scale (e.g. CCTV)?
Will the processing include any data       Yes – linking of user’s Sonar ID to “proximity data”

matching e.g. the combining,               submitted by other users by the central database
comparing or linking of personal data      (Sonar Backend)
obtained from multiple sources?

Will the processing include any denial     No
of service e.g. decisions about an
individual’s access to a product,

service, opportunity or benefit which is
based to any extent on automated
decision-making (including profiling) or
involves the processing of special
category data?
Will personal data about individuals be    Yes – users may share the Reference code provided
shared with other organisations or         to them by the App for the ordering and processing

people who have not previously had         of tests with NHS Business Services Authority
routine access to the data?                (NHSBSA) and linked by them to a patient record, at
                                           the point at which a user telephones their call centre
                                           to request a test.





   13
                                            None of that data will be shared back to the App. In
                                            a future release the outcome of the test (positive or
                                            negative) may be shared back to the App.

Will the project/proposal use personal      No – this is a new initiative and does not use existing

data about individuals for a purpose it is  data
not currently used for or in a new way?
Will the project require you to contact     No.
individuals in ways which they may find
intrusive? i.e. telephoning or emailing
them without their prior consent.

Are you using a Data Processor/third        Yes. Amazon Web Services, Firebase, Microsoft
party supplier or is a service/processing   (Azure) and Pivotal / VMware Tanzu. All are subject
activity being transferred to a new         to appropriate data processing contracts which will
supplier/organisation (or re-contracted)    restrict them to processing personal data solely on
at the end of an existing contract?         behalf of, and subject to the instructions of, NHS

                                            England and DHSC.




   NB. If the answer to any of the above questions is Y, please complete the rest
   of the form. If all of the screening questions are answered N, the local IG team
   must still sign off the DPIA.




                    3
   Personal data

Why would it        The functionality that the app facilitates requires that unique identifiers are used

not be possible     – principally the Sonar ID (AKA anonymous ID), Transmitted ID and Messaging
to do without       ID (AKA Notification Token). Whilst these identifiers do not and cannot reveal the
personal data?      users’ identities, they are essential to the provision of the service to the natural

                    persons that they represent.

                    The processing of App Users pseudonymous personal data is necessary to
                    deliver information and alerts to potentially at-risk members of the public. It

                    allows, when users choose, to provide information about their proximity to other
                    users when they receive an “At Risk” alert or self-diagnose as having
                    coronavirus.


                    The App also includes the facility for users to request a one-time use code which
                    they can use to order a diagnostic test. This code is given by the usrer with their
                    personal details to for example a call center which will arrange for the test to be

                    done. They may disclose this information to the test provider. The personal


   3 ‘personal data’ means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’);

   an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to
   an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more
   factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that
   natural person


   14
                   details that users provide are only used by organisations involved in providing

                   the testing service and are not sent back to the App. These organisations do not
                   have access to the App or its data.

                   The summary process flow below presents the usage of the identifiers and

                   associated attributes.








COVID Proximity App – operational stages and information flows

 [NHS COVID App and System Architecture redacted for publication]

NHS COVID App and System Architecture – 29/04/2020

[WIP - Overview - External system linking with Privacy redacted for publication]


WIP - Overview - External system linking with Privacy – 29/04/2020



Stage              Information flow                        Journey based questions

0.                 No flow via app.                        When I download the app

                                                           ○ What is stored by the Apple App Store
                                                           or Google Play?
                                                           ■ The fact that you downloaded the app

                                                           and which device you downloaded
                                                           it to.
                                                           ○ What is recorded in my browser

                                                           history?
                                                           ■ If you follow the link in the application
                                                           to the explanation or advice pages

                                                           on the NHS website, the address of the
                                                           pages you visit will be recorded in
                                                           the browser history on your phone.


1. Registration 1. Postal Area (first portion of           When I register
                      postcode) entered on Local
                      Application                          ○ What is stored in the NHS database?
                   2. Messaging ID requested by Local      ■ Your app user id
                      Application from the messaging
                                                           ■ The make and model of your phone
                      provider                             ■ A messaging service id for this app
                   3. Messaging ID retrieved by the        only, which the app will use to send you
                      Local Application from the
                      messaging provider                   messages
                   4. Sonar ID requested by Local          ■ Your home postal district - the part of
                      Application from Sonar Backend       your postcode before the space



    15
                  5. Sonar ID generated by Sonar

                     Backend and sent to Local           ○ What is stored on my phone by the
                     Application (Sonar ID used to       app?
                     generate Transmitted ID during      ■ Your app user id
                     periodic rotation)
                  6. Messaging ID, Postal Area and       ■ A messaging service id for this app
                     device Make and Model sent to       only, which the app will use to send you
                     Sonar Backend (make and Model       messages

                     is used to interpret signal strength
                     data to classify encounters)


2. On-going       1. For each encounter with             When I have the app running
use:                 Proximate Application the Local     ○ What is visible to Bluetooth devices
                     Application captures
  Proximity                                              near me?
  encounters             •  Transmitted ID (Proximate    ■ Your temporary app user id for the
  and self-                 Application’s encrypted      day
                            Sonar ID)
  diagnosis              •  Timestamp for encounter      ○ What is monitored by my phone?
                         •  Radio Signal Strength        ■ Power and data usage of the app will
                            Indicator – the strength of  be monitored by your phone

                            the Bluetooth signal
                            received by a device         When I am close to someone else who
                                                         has the app
                  2. Proximity information deleted from
                     phone after 28 days from            ○ What is stored on my phone by the
                                                         app?
                     encounter – rationale in attached:  ■ The other person’s temporary app

                                                         user for the day
                      How long is data                   ■ Information about how strong the
                     kept on phone diagram.pdf           Bluetooth connection was between the
                  3. Symptoms entered on Local           two phones
                     Application. If symptoms indicate

                     COVID-19 diagnosis – stage 3        ○ What is stored on the other person’s
                                                         phone?

                                                         ■ Your temporary app user id for the
                                                         day
                                                         ■ Information about how strong the

                                                         Bluetooth connection was between the
                                                         two phones
3. Submission     1. COVID-19 Self-Diagnosis             When I update my symptoms?
   of self-          assessed and recorded on Local
                                                         ○ If I have no symptoms?
   diagnosis         Application                         ■ Nothing
   and            2. Symptoms and Onset of               ○ If I have symptoms?
   proximity         symptoms sent by Local
   information       Application to Sonar Backend        ■ What is stored in the NHS database?
   to Sonar       3. Proximity information sent by       ● The data stored in your phone about
   Backend           Local Application to Sonar          other phones you have been
                     Backend – for each encounter with
                                                         close to in the last 28 days.
                     Proximity Application:              ● The symptoms you have reported
                         •  Transmitted ID               ● The date your symptoms started
                         •  Timestamp for encounter



   16
                          •   Radio Signal Strength
                              Indicator – the strength of
                              the Bluetooth signal
                              received by a device



 4. Alerts to      1. Sonar Backend decrypts               When I get a notification that I have
     proximity         Transmitted IDs for each Proximity  been in contact with someone who has
     users from        Application to obtain Sonar IDs     symptoms?
     Sonar         2. Sonar Backend links Sonar IDs to
     Backend           Messaging IDs and uses these to     ○ What is recorded in my browser
                                                           history?
                       send alerts to Proximate            ■ If you follow the link in the application
                       Applications
                                                           to the explanation or advice pages
                                                           on the NHS website, the address of the
                                                           pages you visit will be recorded in

                                                           the browser history on your phone.


 5. Deleting the                                           If I delete the app
     app
                                                           ○ What is still stored in the NHS

                                                           database?
                                                           ■ Your app user id
                                                           ■ The make and model of your phone

                                                           ■ A messaging service id for this app
                                                           only, which the app will use to send
                                                           you messages

                                                           ■ Your home postal district - the part of
                                                           your postcode before the space
                                                           ○ What is stored on the phone by the

                                                           app?
                                                           ■ Your app user id
                                                           ■ A messaging service id for this app

                                                           only, which the app will use to send
                                                           you messages


  6.                Request for and issuing of Reference

                    Token



What are the required personal data?

Please itemise them or supply a dummy sample, blank forms, screenshots from the prototype system
etc.

The Data Dictionary is attached






     17
[IMP - Reference - Data Dictionary redacted for publication]

IMP - Reference - Data Dictionary – 29/04/2020



Extract below regarding Isle of Wight metrics


During the limited release in the Isle of Wight, additional data will be collected about the
App’s performance and user interactions with the App. This data will be captured through the
Microsoft AppCentre and will not include the SonarID or any other identifying information, and
will not be linked with any identifying information.
This data is collected to help us understand whether the App and the related infrastructure is
functioning as intended. This is necessarily held on Microsoft servers away from our platform, as
some of the metrics are for the inability to contact our service.


AppCentre Required Data
Minimum data required for Microsoft AppCentre to operate, as documented under the
‘required’ subheaders on https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/appcenter/sdk/data-collected . For
convenience these are
● Application secret (identifying the app to AppCentre)
● Installation ID (identifying the app instance to AppCentre)

● Application Properties - Version, Build
● SDK properties - Name, Version
● Operating System properties - Name, Version
● Device Configuration - Language and Country Code, Time Zone Offset
Capture

Completion of Postal District field

Whether the user entered their postal district data into the app
Completion of Permissions process at installation
Whether the user completed the process granting required permissions for the app.
Mobile Operating System
The operating system in use on the device
Failure to get Firebase Token
Whether the app successfully obtained a Messaging ID from Firebase

Failure of Device Registration
Whether the app successfully obtained a Sonar ID from the backend
Successful Device Validation
Whether the app received a validation message from the backend
Number of contact events transmitted
Per 24 hours. NOT linked to SonarID
Number of contact events received

Per 24 hours. NOT linked to SonarID






Please confirm that this is the The process has been reviewed to ensure that this is the minimum
minimum amount of personal      amount of personal data necessary.
data that is necessary.
Would it be possible for the    All of the data is meets the criteria for pseudonymisation in that it
controllers to use              cannot be attributed to a specific data subject without the use of



     18
pseudonymised personal           additional information. The controller does not hold any additional

data for any element of the      information that could be used to attribute (i.e. reveal the identity of)
processing?                      to a specific data subject.

If Y, please specify the         The following pseudonymisation techniques are implemented:
element(s) and describe the          ▪   The App User has a Sonar ID that is not accessible to them
pseudonymisation                     ▪   The user’s Transmitted ID (which, during a proximity

technique(s) that we are                 encounter, is shared by the user’s App with the other App in
proposing to use.                        proximity) is an encrypted Sonar ID and changes periodically
                                         to further obscure its identity
                                     ▪   For each user, the Sonar Backend will only hold the Sonar

                                         ID, Messaging ID, Reference Code (if generated) symmetric
                                         key of the App user and (if uploaded because the user has
                                         been (self-)diagnosed with COVID-19 or has been in
                                         proximity with another (potentially) infected user) their

                                         proximity encounter data (i.e. Transmitted IDs of proximity
                                         users).




     Scale and constituency(ies)

What is the scale of the processing (i.e. (approximately)   c. 160,000
how many people will be the subject of the processing?

Please describe the constituency(ies).                      The population of the Isle of Wight




     Outcomes

What will be the effects of the            Users will be (i) notified about proximity encounters that

processing (i.e. what actions/decisions    mean they may have contracted COVID-19, and given
will result from the processing)?          advice on the steps to take; and (ii) will have the
                                           opportunity to self-diagnose on the basis of a symptom
                                           checker.

                                           The App will have its first live test prior to being released
                                           nationally.



















     19
     Joint working controllership relationship and bases for lawful processing




Which controllership scenario(s) below apply(ies)?                                    Yes/
                                                                                      No




3. One Party is a Controller, One Party alone is responsible for determining the      Yes

supported by staff employed   purpose and means of Processing to exercise its own
by any of the other Parties   functions and consequently it is the sole Controller. An
                              employee of another of the Parties who assists with the
                              Processing under the guidance, direction or supervision
                              of the sole Controller is acting as an agent of the Party
                              which has the function and which is the Controller.


DHSC (for the Secretary of    6(1)(e)1exercise of official authority – common law     Controller
State)                        powers , and underpinned by Health Service (Control of
                              Patient Information) Regulations 2002 Reg. 3(1) and
                              3(3)(c)

NHS England / TDA / Monitor   Provide agency support for the DHSC – legal basis is    Agency
                              that of the controller






     Special categories of personal data


Will the processing involve personal data about:
(Please tick all that apply.)
    ●  racial or ethnic origin                    No
    ●  political opinions                         No

    ●  religious or philosophical beliefs         No
    ●  trade union membership                     No
    ●  genetic data 6                             No






     1R v Secretary of State for Health, ex parte C [2000] 1 FLR 627
     6
      'genetic data' means personal data relating to the inherited or acquired genetic characteristics of a natural
     person which give unique information about the physiology or the health of that natural person and which
     result, in particular, from an analysis of a biological sample from the natural person in question


     20
    ●                  7
       biometric data                               No
    ●  data concerning health   8                   Yes

    ●  data concerning the sex life or sexual No
       orientation of the data subjects



     If there are no special categories of data processed, please skip the following section
     and proceed to the ‘Common law duty of confidentiality’ section…




     Conditions for processing special category personal data

Legal basis                                         Personal data to which this legal basis relates:


                                                    All data processed by App.

    ●  necessary    for  health  or   social  care GDPR Article 9(2)(h)
       purposes



Yes

Underpinned by DPA 2018 – Schedule 1, Part 1, s. 2(2)(f) – Health or social care purposes



       necessary for public health (please specify  GDPR Article 9(2)(i)
       below)

Yes


Underpinned by Regulation 3(1) and 3(3) of the Health Service (Control of Patient Information
Regulations) 2002






     Common law duty of confidentiality


Are any of the data subject to a duty of    The data collected by the App and uploaded to the Sonar
confidentiality (e.g. clinical records, OH  Backend is being treated as if a common law of
details, payroll information)? If so, pleaseconfidentiality is owed.
specify them.




     7'biometric data' means personal data resulting from specific technical processing relating to the physical,
     physiological or behavioural characteristics of a natural person, which allow or confirm the unique
     identification of that natural person, such as facial images or dactyloscopic data

     8
      'data concerning health' means personal data related to the physical or mental health of a natural person,
     including the provision of health care services, which reveal information about his or her health status


     21
Where it is planned to use or disclose          ●   consent           1. Consent – installation and
such data, what are the grounds for             ●   safeguarding          use of the app is voluntary.
doing so?                                       ●   other overriding      Users understand that their
                                                    public interest -     proximity information will be
                                                    please specify        captred by othe user’s

                                                ●   legal  duty    or     phones and uploaded to the
                                                    permissive            central database.
                                                    power e.g. s251
                                                    support – please  2. Regulation 3(1) and 3(3) of
                                                    specify     (e.g.     the Health Service (Control
                                                    court order)          of Patient Information)

                                                                          Regulations 2002.

If the processing is of data concerning     Public Health Management
health or social care, is it for a purpose
other than direct care ?



     Consultation

Would it be appropriate to seek the views of data    Yes

subjects or their representatives on the proposed
processing?
If Y, how will this be done?                         Consultation with an Ethics Advisory Board
                                                     (chaired by Professor Sir Jonathan Montgomery
                                                     from University College London who previously
                                                     headed the Nuffield Council on Bioethics) and

                                                     Focus Groups.
                                                     User Accessibility Testing (via NHS X delivered by
                                                     Pivotal / VMware Tanzu). See Terms of
                                                     Reference for EAB and Focus Groups for further
                                                     details.


If N, why is this the case?

Would it be helpful to seek advice from              Yes. We have consulted with:
independent experts (clinicians, security experts,
ethicists etc.) where their specialist knowledge
                                                     •  the National Data Guardian’s Panel;
would be useful in understanding and managing        •  the Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation; and
privacy risks?                                       •  representatives from Understanding Patient
                                                        Data.




If Y, how will this be done?                         As above



     9direct care: a clinical, social or public health activity concerned with the prevention, investigation and
     treatment of illness and the alleviation of suffering of individuals. It includes supporting individuals’ ability to

     function and improve their participation in life and society. It includes the assurance of safe and high quality
     care and treatment through local audit, the management of untoward or adverse incidents, person satisfaction
     including measurement of outcomes undertaken by one or more registered and regulated health or social care
     professionals and their team with whom the individual has a legitimate relationship for their care.


     22
Will any other stakeholder(s) (whether internal or   ICO (to brief)
external) need to be consulted about the             National Data Guardian (“NDG”) (part of the EAB,
proposed processing (e.g. NHSE Central team,         but also briefed separately)
Public Health England, NHS Digital, the Office for
National Statistics)?

What was/were the outcomes(s) of such                The consultation resulted in the creation of the
consultation?                                        independent ethics advisory board and in
                                                     recommendations issued to the App Oversight

                                                     Board. They were incorporated into the DPIA for
                                                     CLOSED BETA and developed through
                                                     subsequent iterations. Both CDEI and NDG

                                                     offered thoughts and recommendations both of
                                                     the functionality of the app (for example the use of
                                                     self-diagnosis) but also the need for transparency

                                                     and clarity on use of data.

                                                     [CDEI NHSx Board note 26-3-20 redacted for

                                                     publication]

                                                     CDEI NHSx Board note 26-3-20 – 29/04/2020





     Datasets and access

     Data within the Sonar Backend and flows into the Sonar Backend will be accessible and
     used by the COVID-19 Contact App team. Members of the team include:


         ▪  [via NHS X] Department of Health and Social Care, COVID-19 team;
         ▪  [via NHS X] NHS England staff working under the instructions of the Department of
            Health and Social Care, COVID-19 team;

         ▪  Staff working for Data Processors as outlined below.


                      10
     Data processor

 Will the processing be wholly or partly        Yes
 performed on our behalf by a data
 processor(s)?
 If Y please give details                       Amazon Web Services (“   AWS  ”)

                                                Pivotal / VMware Tanzu – for support to COVID-19
                                                team and exceptional access e.g. to fix problems
                                                Firebase – messaging provider
                                                Microsoft (Azure)





     10
       'processor' means a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which processes
     personal data on behalf of the controller


     23
Where is the data to be processed by the    ● In UK; or

data processor?                             ● Outside UK but in EEA




   If the processing is not completed by a data processor, please ignore the following questions
   and proceed to the ‘Collection of personal data’ section …

What assurance has been/will be sought about      Pivotal / VMware Tanzu need to complete the
the/each processor’s compliance with the          assurance checklist

GDPR?
Will the contract use NHS England’s standard No
data processing agreement template?
Will the contract contain standard clauses to AWS - AWS GDPR DATA PROCESSING
require compliance with the GDPR?                 ADDENDUM
                                                  Microsoft - Microsoft Online Services Data
                                                  Protection Addendum January 2020

                                                  Firebase - verify
                                                  Pivotal / VMware Tanzu - G-Cloud 11 contract
Will the contract contain clauses to address the N/A
secure transfer of the personal data to a
successor data processor should this become
necessary or upon the expiry of the term?





   Collection of personal data

Will personal data be collected from    Yes –
the data subject?                      1. on registration (postcode area associated with Sonar ID)
                                       2. proximity encounter data and symptom data will be

                                           collected directly from the data subject when submitted
                                           via the App.


                                        The Sonar ID will be generated centrally on the Sonar
                                        Backend.





Will personal data be obtained from Yes – other app users. See below.
sources other than the subject?
Will personal data be collected from a Yes – Proximity encounter data submitted by App users will
third party(ies)?                       contain the Transmitted ID of other App Users that meet
                                        the proximity criteria.


If Y, please identify the third party(ies)? Other App users
                                        .

Is the provision of personal data The provision of personal data (i.e. uploading of data to the
obligatory or voluntary?                Sonar Backend) is a voluntary action for App Users.




   24
                                        The user has chosen to load the App onto their device and

                                        will choose to provide their proximity encounter data when
                                        requested to do so by an alert.

If obligatory, why/how is that the case? The provision of personal data is never obligatory.
                                        However, if user A and user B have a proximity encounter,
                                        and user A chooses to upload data about their encounter,

                                        then the provision of that data was not speciically voluntary
                                        for user B.

What are the possible consequences If a user does not upload proximity encounter data then
for a data subject if there is a failure to opportunities may be missed to carry out proximity alerting
provide the requested personal data?    for that user (and the other users with whom they had
                                        proximity encounters).



How will the personal data be collected in each case?

Phase                     Collector               Mode                    Content
Contact App -             Sonar Backend           Communication from      Registration details
registration                                      mobile phone to the     including Postal Area

(phone)                                           sonar backend is via
                                                  HTTPS RESTful micro
                                                  services over TLSv1.2
                                                  with other security
                                                  protections.

Contact App (phone)       User’s phone            Bluetooth               Transmitted IDs and

                                                                          timestamps obtained
                                                                          from proximity users
Contact App Alert         User’s phone            Via Firebase            Alert of proximity of
                                                  messaging service       reported COVID
                                                  Packet data is          diagnosis
                                                  encrypted with the

                                                  receiving user's
                                                  security key so only
                                                  they can decrypt it.

Submit Symptoms and       Sonar Backend           Communication from      Transmitted ID and
proximity information                             mobile phone to the     timestamp of proximity
                                                  sonar backend is via    users

                                                  HTTPS RESTful micro
                                                  services over TLSv1.2
                                                  with other security
                                                  protections.




   Additional technical detail about the collection of data is included in Appendix 1.



   Privacy information




   25
How will the data subjects be informed of the      App users will receive a privacy notice that

processing of personal data about them?            explains what information will be collected, how it
                                                   will be used, the rights available to them, and
                                                   sources of further information.





   Accuracy of personal data

How will we ensure the accuracy of the            All identifiers are internally generated and their
personal data (including their rectification or   accuracy is therefore within our control.
erasure where necessary)?

                                                  Make and model of device is collected in order to
                                                  help accurately calibrate proximity information.

                                                  We are reliant on the user’s self-diagnosis, but
                                                  symptom checker questions have been carefully
                                                  designed with professional oversight. We are
                                                  reliant on the user to submit their postal area, but

                                                  can check that it is a valid postal area code.

How will we monitor the quality of the personal   See above.
data?



   Subject access and data subjects’ rights

How will it be possible to provide a copy of the   This will require users to have access to their
personal data processed about a particular         Sonar ID. With this they may be able to make a
individual to them (redacted as necessary)         request which will be processed via the DHSC
should they request access to this information?    SRR process. The technical practicality of this
(If you are purchasing an information              needs to be assessed.

management system, you should consider
including requirements in the specification about  If users do not have access to the Sonar ID,
searching and subject access requests.)            SRRs may be exempt under Article 11.

What processes will be put in place to ensure      As above.
that other data subjects rights can be

appropriately applied to the personal data if      Users may uninstall the App from their phone at
necessary?                                         any time which will cause deletion of all the app
                                                   data from the device. This will not cascade to the
                                                   Sonar backend.




   Data sharing


Will some or all of the personal data be shared     The data may be shared with NHS England and
with a third party.                                 NHS Improvement who will process with powers
                                                    under the notice issued by the Secretary of Stae
                                                    under s. 3(4) of the Health Service (Control of
                                                    Patient Information) Regulations 2002.



   26
   If N, please skip outflows in the next section …

If Y, will the personal data be disclosed to a No
recipient(s) in a country outside the EEA or
an international organisation?



   Data flows - see Appendix 1



   Risks


   What are the identified risks of the processing?



     20200505a DPIA
   Risk Log Covid Proximity App.pdf



   Please see risk register attached.


   [Application security risk register redacted for publication]

   Application security risk register – 29/04/2020

   [Platform security risk register redacted for publication]

   Platform security risk register – 29/04/2020




   Incident reporting

What plans are in place in relation to the        DHSC’s standard policies and procedures for
internal reporting of a personal data breach?     personal data breaches will be followed.
(NB Unless the personal data breach is
unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and

freedoms of the individual(s), it will normally
need to be reported to the ICO within 72
hours.)
What plans are in place in relation to the        In the event of any breach, appropriate
                                                  information will be sent to App Users though this
notification of data subjects should there be     functionality will not be available in Minimum
a personal data breach?
(NB Where a personal data breach is likely to     Viable Product.
result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms
of the individual(s), they should be notified as
soon as reasonably feasible and provided


   27
with   any   recommendations       to   mitigate

potential adverse effects.)


   Business continuity planning

How will the personal data be restored in a        For the Sonar Backend, appropriate back-up
                                                   processes and procedures will be in place in
timely manner in the event of a physical or
technical incident?                                line with standard G-Cloud contract
                                                   requirements.





   Retention of personal data


What is/are the retention period(s) for the        In accordance with the law, personal data will
personal data?                                     not be kept for longer than is necessary. The
                                                   exact retention period for data that may be
                                                   processed relating to COVID-19 for public
                                                   health reasons has yet to be set (owing to the
                                                   uncertain nature of COVID-19 and the impact
                                                   that it may have on the public).


                                                   In light of this, we will ensure that the necessity
                                                   to retain the data will be routinely reviewed by
                                                   an independent authority (at least every 6
                                                   months).

                                                   There will be a research value for data selected
                                                   by the NHS COVID-19 App, along with any
                                                   other COVID-19 data set. Whilst the NHS

                                                   COVID-19 App will ensure that information
                                                   processed within the NHS COVID-19 App
                                                   cannot be identified, there may be requests to
                                                   process data from the app for research
                                                   purposes, which may be linked with identifiable
                                                   data. All such requests will be subject to further
                                                   approvals and independent oversight.



What is the basis for this retention period?       The retention period, including tha for
(Please indicate applicable guidance or            individual data items will be reviewed on an
rationale)                                         ongoing basis.












   28
   Direct marketing     11

Will any personal data be processed for direct No. Notifications sent to users do not

marketing purposes?                                  constitute advertising or marketing material.
If Y, please describe how the proposed direct
marketing will take place:



   Data portability

Where the processing is based on consent or due Not Applicable

to a contract, it is carried out by automated
means and the data subject has provided the
personal data to us, will it be possible to provide
them or a different controller with the personal

data in a structured, commonly used and
machine-readable format?
(NB This does not apply to processing necessary
for the performance of a task carried out in the
public interest or in the exercise of official

authority vested in the controller – GDPR Article
6(1)(e)).



   Automated processing

Will the processing result in a decision being Yes
made about the data subject solely on the basis
                          12                   13
of automated processing (including profiling )?
If Y, is the decision:                               The processing is authorised by Regulation
     ●   necessary     for   entering    into,   or  3(1) and 3(3) of the Health Service (Control of
         performance of, a contract between the
         data subject and a data controller          Patient Information) Regulations 2002.

     ●   authorised by law
     ●   based on the data subject’s explicit
         consent?
Please describe the logic involved in any            See attached specification for the risk scroring

automated decision-making.                           algorithem


                                                        Risk-scoring
                                                     Algorithm - For Publication.pdf


   11
      direct marketing is “the communication (by whatever means) of any advertising or marketing material
   which is directed to particular individuals” - all promotional material falls within this definition, including
   material promoting the aims of not-for-profit organisations

   12
      examples include the automatic refusal of an online credit application and e-recruiting practices without
   any human intervention

   13 'profiling' means any form of automated processing of personal data consisting of the use of personal data
   to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to a natural person, in particular to analyse or predict aspects

   concerning that natural person's performance at work, economic situation, health, personal preferences,
   interests, reliability, behaviour, location or movements

   29
Please outline the significance and the          The NHS COVID-19 app uses Bluetooth to
envisaged consequences of such processing for    anonymously record the distance over time
the data subject.                                between people who have downloaded the
                                                 App. If a person reports coronavirus
                                                 symptoms,their recent history of interactions is
                                                 uploaded to a central database and this

                                                 algorithm is used to update the risk-score for
                                                 every app user they have come into contact
                                                 with.

                                                 If the risk-score for an individual crosses a
                                                 given threshold, they will receive additional
                                                 guidance from PHE on how they can prevent

                                                 the spread of the virus.


   ICT

Will we, or the data processor(s), be using a    Yes – developed by the Pivotal / VMware
new system to process the personal data?         Tanzu





   If Y to the above question around new systems, please ensure that a System Level Security
   Policy is completed and risk assessed by ICT before proceeding to the sign off stage below.




   Appendix 1 – Data inflow and outflow tables

 Inflows
Sender            Content          Pseudonymis     Mode           Security         Recipient
                                   ed?

User              See Stage 1      yes             Mobile phone   Communicatio     Sonar
                  Registration                     app to Sonar   n from mobile    Backend
                  details                          Backend        phone to the
                                                                  sonar backend
                                                                  is via HTTPS
                                                                  RESTful micro
                                                                  services over

                                                                  TLSv1.2 with
                                                                  other security
                                                                  protections.

Proximity User    See Stage 2      Yes             Bluetooth      Transmitted ID   Local User
                 •Transmitted ID                                  is encrypted

                   (Proximate                                     with daily
                   Application’s                                  rotation
                   encrypted
                   Sonar ID)
                 •Timestamp for
                   encounter



   30
                 •Radio Signal
                   Strength
                   Indicator – the
                   strength of the
                   Bluetooth
                   signal
                   received by a

                   device

User              See Stage 3      Yes             Mobile phone Communicatio        Sonar
                  for each                         app to Sonar n from mobile       Backend
                  encounter with                   Backend         phone to the
                  Proximity App:                                   sonar backend
                                                                   is via HTTPS
                  • Transmitted
                    ID                                             RESTful micro
                  • Timestamp                                      services over
                    for encounter                                  TLSv1.2 with
                  • Radio Signal                                   other security
                    Strength                                       protections.
                    Indicator –

                    the strength
                    of the
                    Bluetooth
                    signal
                    received by
                    a device





Outflows
Sender            Content          Pseudonymis      Mode           Security         Recipient
                                   ed

Sonar Backend     Alert that the   Yes              Via Firebase   Via Firebase     User
                  receiving user                    messaging      messaging
                  has been in                       service        service
                  contact with an                   Packet data    Packet data is
                  infected                          is encrypted   encrypted with
                  individual                        with the       the reciving
                                                    reciving       user's security

                                                    user's         key so only
                                                    security key   they can
                                                    so only they   decrypt it.
                                                    can decrypt
                                                    it.













   31
